# Project Documentation

This site provides project documentation.
Use the documentation navigation to explore.

## How-To Guide

Many instructions are common to all our projects.

See
[⭐ **Workflow: Apply Example**](https://denisecase.github.io/pro-analytics-02/workflow-b-apply-example-project/)
to get the example projects running on your machine.

## Project Documentation Pages (docs/)

- **Home** - this documentation landing page
- [**Project Instructions**](./project-instructions.md)  - the standard project workflow
- [**Your Files**](./your-files.md) - how to copy the example and create your version
- [**Glossary**](./glossary.md) - project terms and concepts
- [**API**](./api.md) - autogenerated code documentation for the public project interface

## Phase 4. Technical Modification
Technical modification made in [ml_03_arnold.ipynb](notebooks/ml_03_arnold.ipynb) include:
1. Visualize the count of "Species" in the dataset.
2. Create different combination of independent features to determine which combination gives us the accuracy on training data and test data.
3. Created a table or dataframe to compare the accuracy of each combination.

Technical modification was challenging. I had trouble getting the code to execute the logic correctly. I ended up auditing my code with AI and carefully analyzing the logic to figure out what was going wrong.

New behavior or result observed include:
1. A bar chart was generated to display species count.
3. A new list of independent feature combinations.
4. A table comparing the accuracy of different feature combinations.


## Phase 5. Custom Project
This project fits a classifier using different feature combinations, reports the accuracy scores, and selects the best-performing feature combination. It then highlights the best feature combination, along with the related parameters and how the scores change as those parameters are adjusted.

This project uses the iris dataset.
We choose to predict the target `species of iris flower`.
Dataset has **150 rows** and **5 columns**
Independent features to work with: ['sepal_length', 'sepal_width', 'petal_length', 'petal_width']
This target is a **discrete category**, so we have a:

- supervised ML problem (because we've chosen a target variable)
- a classification problem (because our target is a category)
- Decision Tree is the classification Model.
- We will train model with varying combinations of independent features.

Process Summary
-Loaded data set into data frame.
-Inspected the dataset.
-Created a list of feature combination.
-Split dataset into train set and test set.
-Trained model using train dataset with respect to varying feature combinations.
-Assessed the accuracy of train set and test set for each feature combinations.
-Selected the best feature combination and tree depth.
-Assessed the best feature combination at varying depth to confirm our model selection.

The  best model according to this analysis and performance score is a decision tree model using independent features  petal_length and petal_width with depth 3 which has train accuracy score of 0.983333 and test accuracy score of 0.966667. We can notice from the graph above the depths before the 3 causes underfitting and depths over 3 causes overfitting.

NOTE: Please refer [ml_03_arnold_iris.ipynb](notebooks/ml_03_arnold_iris.ipynb) for detailed analysis.
